# peripheral_visions
**Peripheral Visions: The Birth and Evolution of Japanese Imperialism (1850-1937)**

*This course aims to familiarize students with the burgeoning literature on the origins and development of Japanese imperialism (1850-1937)*. In the wake of the diplomatic humiliation of the ‘unequal treaties’, Japan embarked on a society-wide reform effort aimed at asserting its position in the voracious late 19th century world order. An overhaul of its political, judicial, economic,… systems was crafted after cherry-picked Western “examples” which operated as political narratives. 
After driving back Western advisers, exchange bankers and diplomats whom the Japanese identified as agents of Western power and interests, Meiji-reformers also began copying the center-periphery distinction into Japan's own sphere of interest. The aim was “to become the Great-Britain of the East”. This embedding of Western narratives of domination into Japanese own storytelling remains a deceptive and little understood process; its understanding is at the heart of the proposed course. Through topics as punishment, representation, and policies related to narcotics, the course also touches upon historiographical developments as gender, the history of the body,...

Importantly, the course also serves a secondary, more encompassing objective. Disappointed with traditional analyses centering on human agency, it attempts to identify deeper, underlying forces that do not only constrain human choice, but that turn out to possess a self-propelling dynamic and, by their very nature, show themselves to transcend the semantics of the nation state and related categories (national culture, etc.). More specifically, students are invited to (re)think *communication media* (radio, telegraph, photography, …) and a range of technologies (financial, judicial, military, scientific) as the origins, catalyzers and even objectives of development and struggle in modern world society. A central tenet of the course is therefore to link historiographical findings with the interdisciplinary fields of media studies, systems theory, and so on.
